[Blog] Open source journey @Layer5 (#2451)
layer5io/layer5: src/collections/blog/2022-03-01-open-source-journey-gaurav-chadha/index.mdx

---
title: My Open Source Journey @Layer5
subtitle: It changed my life completely!
date: 2022-01-03 10:30:05 -0530
author: Gaurav Chadha
thumbnail: ./profile-banner.png
category: Community
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Experience
  - Layer5
  - Meshery
published: true
---

import { BlogWrapper } from "../Blog.style.js";
import Profile from "./gaurav-chadha.png"

<BlogWrapper>
<img src={Profile} className="profileImg" align="right" alt="profile-img" />
<p>
  Hey👋, I am Gaurav Chadha, a student from New Delhi, India with lots of dreams, ambitions, and zeal to learn and grow more each and every day.
</p>
<h2 id="journey">How it started?</h2>
<p>
My journey in Open source started with late-night surfing on LinkedIn,
I saw a post about Layer5 organization and open-source which drove me to their website and slack channel, and then Boom my one click to join @Layer5's slack workspace kickstarted my journey in Open Source.
I would say this was my best ever decision in life till now.
</p>
<h2 id="firs-pr">Getting started in the community</h2>
<p>

> As soon as I joined Later5's slack workspace, I landed on different slack channels workspace, at first I was a bit shy to introduce myself on the #introduction channel but then I saw many other folks started to introduce themselves, my inner voice said when they can the why not me, so I also introduced my self to the community. 

Reviewer: `... I landed on different slack channels workspace. At first`

Reviewer: `... so I also introduced myself to the community.`

The best part here in Layer5 is each and every newcomer is warmly welcomed and 

> they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped me to get started with the project and to know more about community works.

Reviewer: `... which helped them`

</p>
<p>
  I would highly recommend all the newcomers to engage as much as possible in the community, you will gradually start seeing a change in yourself.
</p>

<h3 id="first-pr">Way to my First Pull Request</h3>
<p>
I still remember at that time I was just a beginner with Git, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and most of the issues on the repository were going over my head. 

> So I started with a very beginner-friendly issue and that was changing a background of a component and who would have thought this changing background issue will eventually change my life in open source. 

Reviewer: `... beginner-friendly issue about changing ...`

---
title: My Open Source Journey @Layer5
subtitle: It changed my life completely!
date: 2022-01-03 10:30:05 -0530
author: Gaurav Chadha
thumbnail: ./profile-banner.png

> description: "My journey as an Open Source contributor at Layer5. How I started from scratch?, got involved in this community

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "My journey as an Open Source contributor at Layer5. How I started from scratch, got involved in this community
```

and gained many new experiences."
category: Community
tags:
  - Open Source
  - Experience
  - Layer5

>   - Meshery

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

published: true
---

import { BlogWrapper } from "../Blog.style.js";
import Profile from "./gaurav-chadha.png"

<BlogWrapper>
<img src={Profile} className="profileImg" align="right" alt="profile-img" />
<p>
  Hey👋, I am Gaurav Chadha, a student from New Delhi, India with lots of dreams, ambitions, and zeal to learn and grow more each and every day.
</p>
<h2 id="journey">How did it all begin?</h2>
<p>

> My journey in Open source started with late-night surfing on LinkedIn,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
My journey in open source started with late-night surfing on LinkedIn.
```

> I saw a post about Layer5 organization and open-source which drove me to their website and slack channel, and then Boom my one click to join @Layer5's slack workspace kickstarted my journey in Open Source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I saw a post about the Layer5 organization and open source which drove me to their website and [Slack workspace](https://slack.layer5.io). And then, 💥 a single-click was all it took to kickstart my journey in Open Source and set in-motion a new chapter in my career development and relationships with new colleagues. 
```

I would say this was my best ever decision in life till now.
</p>
<h2 id="firs-pr">Getting started in the community</h2>
<p>

> As soon as I joined Layer5's slack workspace, I landed on different slack channels workspace, At first I was a bit shy to introduce myself on the #introduction channel but then I saw many other folks introducing themselves. My inner voice asked, "If they can do it, why can't I?", so I went ahead and introduced myself to the community. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Despite the warm welcome that I receive upon joining Layer5's Slack workspace, I was a bit shy to introduce myself in the [#newcomers channel](https://layer5io.slack.com/archives/C019426UBNY), but then I saw so many other folks introducing themselves. My inner voice asked, "If they can do it, why can't I?", so I went ahead and introduced myself to the community. 
```

> As soon as I joined Later5's slack workspace, I landed on different slack channels workspace, At first I was a bit shy to introduce myself on the #introduction channel but then I saw many other folks introducing themselves. My inner voice aksed, "If they can do it, why can't I?", so I went ahead and introduced myself to the community. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As soon as I joined Layer5's slack workspace, I landed on different slack channels workspace, At first I was a bit shy to introduce myself on the #introduction channel but then I saw many other folks introducing themselves. My inner voice asked, "If they can do it, why can't I?", so I went ahead and introduced myself to the community. 
```

> The best part here in Layer5 is each and every newcomer is warmly welcomed and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The best part for newcomers in Layer5 is that not only is each individual warmly welcomed, but that
```

> they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped them to get started with the project and to know more about community works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped them to get started with the project and to know more about how the community works.
```

> they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped them to get started with the project and to know more about community works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped them to get started with the project and to know more about the community.
```

> they also have a dedicated  Newcomers Call which helped them to get started with the project and to know more about how the community works.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Layer5 [MeshMates](/community/meshmates) and Community Managers host a weekly meeting (see the [community calendar](/events/calendar)) dedicated to the success of newcomers, helping each person find a foothold in the community. The overview provided in each weekly Newcomers meeting gives you the leg up that you need to get started with any of [Layer5's projects](/projects) and orients you to the how the community works (the [community handbook](/community/handbook) is an excellent resource in this regard) and who to contact in your areas of interest.
```

</p>
<p>

>   I would highly recommend all the newcomers to engage as much as possible in the community, you will gradually start seeing a change in yourself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  I highly recommend all newcomers to engage as much as possible in the community. You will gradually start seeing a change in yourself.
```

</p>

<h3 id="first-pr">Way to my First Pull Request</h3>
<p>
I still remember at that time I was just a beginner with Git, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and most of the issues on the repository were going over my head. 

> So I started with a very beginner-friendly issue about changing a background of a component and who would have thought this changing background issue will eventually change my life in open source. 

Reviewer 3: @Chadha93 include links to the help wanted and the good first issue labels. Make sure the links that you include span all orgs. See any of the project repos' READMEs for an example.

Author: sounds good I'll add this

---
title: My Open Source Journey @Layer5
subtitle: From Contributor to SWE Intern
date: 2022-01-15 10:30:05 -0530
author: Gaurav Chadha
thumbnail: ./profile-banner.png
description: "My journey as an Open Source contributor at Layer5. How I started from scratch, got involved in this community

> and gained many new experiences."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and gained many new experiences."
type: Blog
```
